(Music) As cloud environments gain greater adoption, and digital data invites
rapidly increasing cybersecurity threats, building secure networks on the cloud
is crucial. Let’s look at how we can build a secure cloud networking presence.
As one might expect, the notion of building a cloud network is not much
different from deploying a network in an on-premises data center. The main
difference stems from the fact, that in the cloud, we use logical instances of
networking elements as opposed to physical devices. For example, Network
Interface Controllers (NICs) would be represented by vNICs in cloud
environments. In the cloud, networking functions are delivered as a service
rather than in the form of rack-mounted devices. To create a network in the
cloud, one starts by defining the size of the network, or the IP address range
that establishes the boundaries or the cloud network. Cloud networks are
deployed in networking spaces that are logically separated segments of the
networks using options, including Virtual private Cloud (VPC) that in turn can
be divided into smaller segments called subnets. Logically segmented cloud
networks are private carveout of the cloud that offer customers the security of
private clouds and the scalability of public clouds. Cloud resources, such as
VMs or Virtual Server Instances (VSIs), storage, network connectivity and load
balancers are deployed into subnets. Using subnets allows users to deploy
enterprise applications using the same multi-tier concepts used in on-premises
environments. Subnets are also the main area where security is implemented in
the cloud. Every subnet is protected by Access Control Lists (ACLS) that serve
as a subnet-level fire wall. Within the subnet, one could create Security Groups
that provide security at the instance level such as VSIs. Once you build a
subnet, then it is time to add some VSIs and storage to it so that you could run
your applications. Let’s say you have a 3-tier application that requires web
access VSIs, applications tier VSIs and backend database VSIs. In this case, we
would place the web facing VSIs into one Security Group, the Application VSIs in
a second Security Group, while the database VSIs in a third Security Group. It
goes without saying that the web-facing VISs need Internet access. A public
Gateway instance is added to the network to enable users’ access to the
application in the internet tier. While public gateways are great for Internet
access to the cloud, enterprises are interested in extending their on-premises
resources to the cloud by securely connecting them using Virtual Private
Networks, or VPNs. When building many subnets and deploying several workloads,
it becomes necessary to ensure that applications continue to be responsive. That
is achieved with Load Balancers that ensure availability of bandwidth for the
different applications. Enterprises with hybrid cloud environment find using
dedicated high-speed connections between clouds and on-premises resources is a
more secured and more efficient way than public connectivity solutions. Some
cloud service providers offer such connectivity, such as IBM Cloud and its
Direct Link solution that enables extending on-premises resources to the cloud
as needed. Building a cloud network entails creating a set of logical constructs
that deliver networking functionality that is akin to the data center networks
that all IT professionals have come to rely on for securing their environments
and ensuring high performing business applications. In the Next video we’ll look
at containerization technology and why containers have become a de-facto element
of Cloud Native computing.